So it's really exciting times. Obviously
in trying to determine what the market
size of this all is a bit of a fool's
errand and as famously people have
withdraw been wildly off before. I think
Morgan Stanley has estimated in the next
few years 25% of global software spend
could be towards these AI use cases.
And so all this is like incredibly
exciting. obviously makes the best
period to to be an a venture investor,
but certainly comes with its challenges
as well, right? And I think there's two
main challenges that we see day-to-day.
The first is there's a lot of AI
companies being started and what that
means on our end is an interesting
pattern that we have as investors is
anytime we get excited or interested in
a category, there's 10 plus startups in
that category that pop up. And so that
is really interesting market dynamic.
The second thing we're seeing is, and
I'm sure folks have seen headlines and
whatnot, the prices for these companies
are definitely increasing. There's a lot
of investor excitement. Hey everybody,
Sster Annual will be back May 2026, the
world's largest SAS and AI gathering for
executives. Just this last May, we
hosted 10,000 attendees with 68 VP level
and above attendees. 36% CEOs and
founders and 25% were AI first
professionals. It's the very best of S
tier attendees and decision makers that
come to Saster annual and AI summit each
and every year. But here's the reality
folks. The longer you wait, the higher
ticket prices get. They're cheap now.
They're cheap. So just get them early.
Lock in your spot today. Use my code
Jason 100 for exclusive savings. Get
your tickets at podcast.sanual.com
or just use code Jason100 when you check
out. See you there. disaster annual and
AI summit 2026. It will rock.
[Music]
So maybe give a bit of background first
on myself and then we can dive into it.
I'm Jacob Efron. I'm a managing director
over at Redpoint. Redpoint is an $8
billion venture capital firm based in
Silicon Valley. We've invested in
companies like Snowflake, Stripe,
Twilio, Ram, Hashi Corp, and I help lead
a lot of our AI investing. I also run an
AI podcast on supervised learning. So,
if you find any of this interesting,
definitely check that out. But today,
I'll talk a little bit about what we're
seeing in the AI world, how it informs
our investments today, and maybe I'll
start with some backdrop that I imagine
is familiar to most of you, but maybe
help set the context for what we're
seeing as VCs.
And so, to kick it off, we're seeing a
massive decline in model costs today.
So, what does this slide show? Basically
for a given benchmark of model
capabilities, the cost of
per token of those models is going way
down, way faster than it was in the
cloud era. And so what I think that
means for AI application companies is a
familiar pattern where basically we get
a set of frontier models that have new
capabilities. We discover the wild
things they can do and then those
capabilities become cheaper and cheaper
until they can be wrapped into the vast
majority of products. And even in the
past year, we've seen some wild new
capabilities from from models.
Obviously, they've gotten way better at
coding. I think voice models have gotten
a lot better. And that's then spawned a
ton of different startups in these
spaces. And so I think the implications
of that are as we think about things,
we're super focused on what's the end
use case and how powerful is that with
AI and a lot less focused on what are
the gross margins of today because these
models just get cheaper and cheaper over
time.
I think the natural byproduct of these
people playing around with these models
for longer periods of times is we
continue to just find more and more use
cases and get more and more usage of
these underlying models. And so just the
insane increase in in usage of AI models
which is a lot faster than happened in
the cloud era. And we'll talk a little
bit later about some of the use cases
that are driving this. But I think
there's this pervasive feeling in the
investment community today that even if
you froze the model capabilities,
there's trillions and trillions of
dollars of applications just waiting to
be discovered here. And obviously for
some of the most cutting edge reasoning
models, we've only had 69 months to
experiment with what these models can
do. And so I think over time there's
going to be more and more. And what that
means is basically the power of these
models, the increased usage, the fact
that they're pretty cheap. Is that when
these startups find product market fit,
they're just scaling way faster than
traditional SAS counterparts. And so
this is some great data from Stripe that
shows how fast AI companies are scaling.
And this pace of adoption breaks a lot
of rules about traditional startups. As
I think about some of the classic rules
of SAS investing, it was maybe don't go
against some of these horizontal
incumbents or don't sell into hospitals
or law firms or banks. Those are those
customers that take a long time to buy.
But we're seeing a lot of these rules be
broken by just the 10x better product
capabilities that a lot of these models
are able to provide and like insanely
fast scaling. And what does that mean is
these budgets are only only going to
increase. I think maybe in the early
days postJPT there was a little bit of
skepticism from enterprises about what
some of these models would actually be
able to do but there's the combination
of kind of actual real world impact
these models have had plus just everyone
watching the pace at which they've
gotten better I think has led to
real deep interest from enterprises. So
I think these budgets are only going to
get bigger and at the same time the
models are only are going to get better
and I think we're with each generation
of model improvement we unlock a whole
new set of capabilities and obviously a
lot of focus now is around models that
can do tasks for longer periods of time.
And so this slide is really around how
long can you let a model go and act and
actually execute something or or what
folks often call agents. And I think as
models are more and more able to do this
the set of applications that they're
able to address and the set of
industries they're able to address is
only going to increase. So it's really
exciting times. obviously in trying to
determine what the market size of this
all is a bit of a fool's errand and is
famously people have whiffed on been
wildly off before but I think there's
all sorts of estimates of just hey this
is a really large opportunity
I think Morgan Stanley has estimated in
the next few years 25% of global
software spend is it could be towards
these AI use cases
and so all this is like incredibly
exciting obviously makes the best period
to to being a venture investor, but
certainly comes with its challenges as
well, right? And I think there's two
main challenges that we see day-to-day.
The first is there's a lot of AI
companies being started business. If
you're an ambitious founder today, what
more exciting space to go build in than
applying these models to a bunch of end
industries? I think YC is a great proxy
for what types of companies are being
founded. And so you're seeing the
proportion of AI companies go way up.
And what that means on our end is an
interesting pattern that we have as
investors is anytime we get excited or
interested in a category, there's 10
plus startups in that category that pop
up. And so that that is a is really
interesting market dynamic. The second
thing we're seeing is, and I'm sure
folks have seen headlines and whatnot,
the prices for these companies are
definitely increasing. There's a lot of
investor excitement. And so we looked at
data of all the kind of series B and C
companies we'd looked at that were nonAI
and then AI. And as you can see the AI
companies, they're raising larger
rounds. They're raising those rounds at
higher prices. Now admittedly, a lot of
that is justified by the higher growth
rates that these companies have, the
kind of step change and adoption. But
these prices and the sheer number of
companies definitely make for a a
challenging investing landscape to
navigate today.
And so maybe I'll share a few
observations on the broader market
before I talk about how we think about
navigating all this.
The first thing I'd say is these
products are hard to build. Yes, there's
a lot of companies that we see in each
space, the 10 plus in each category, but
I would say a common trend is that in in
any category we look at, there's really
two to three of them that that rise to
the top and they're providing a better
user experience. they're scaling faster
and I think the reason is there's not a
ton of tooling that exists for a lot of
these problems below the below the line
here and so companies are building their
own scaffolding around the models and
with the pace of model progress that
scaffolding has to change really quickly
and it's actually quite challenging to
build effective AI applications and we
see a real difference in what some of
the best companies are able to do.
The second point I'd make about
investing in the space is our thinking
on what makes an interesting application
company and what application companies
need to do evolves over time. I feel
like there's just a fire hose of new
progress in model advances and it's
important for us to have strong opinions
on on what makes for interesting
applications. But we have to loosely
hold them in this just period of rapid
change. And I think maybe one example of
this that that could be interesting is
the idea of kind of building and
fine-tuning your own models for a
specific domain. So immediately postJBT
there was all this buzz around, hey
enterprises sit on tons of data. What if
they pre-trained a really large model
that was specific to finance or law or
healthcare? And so famously, I think
Bloomberg trained a model, Bloomberg
GPT, that outperformed the the latest
OpenAI model of the time. And then 3
months later, OpenAI shipped the new
model and it was way better. And I think
that consensus has been, hey, massive
pre-training for an individual domain
doesn't make a ton of sense. And for a
while, even fine-tuning was somewhat
effective, not super effective. And it
felt like the game was all about just
building really good workflows on top of
the model APIs. But the market does
evolve and in the last few months OpenAI
ship reinforcement fine-tuning which
kind of a new way of fine-tuning that
they offer and it's actually quite good
and so it actually is starting to seem
again being able at least to not
pre-train but fine-tune data on a
specific domain could be really helpful
for a lot of these application
companies. And so it's just a constantly
changing and evolving landscape and one
we're always trying to stay on top of
what's happening. I think one of the
most important things as we think about
what's happening is what's actually
working. And so maybe to hit on what
we've seen really work today.
I'd say broadly there's four types of
applications that have real fit and then
we see them applied in on a ton of
different ways. The first is chat, but
it's a a great use case for these LLMs.
works really well in the customer
support space. The second is the ability
to basically search over documents and
summarize those documents. And so you've
seen that in the horizontal space with
companies like Glean, but also in
verticals, legal AI, companies like Lora
or construction, companies like trunk
tools. And then these models are really
good at speech to text and text to
speech. And so you've seen that in the
healthcare space, companies like A
Bridge that are transcribing medical
visits as well as companies like
Liberate and Assort that are doing the
front door of insurance brokers or
medical clinics and being able to field
more calls than folks could before. And
then the last bucket is coding, right?
These models are unbelievable at coding.
They're only getting better. You've seen
the explosion of companies like Cursor
and Cognition, Poolside, Source Graph, a
whole host of of
companies in that world. And so I'd say
to date the categories that feel like
they've worked best are coding, customer
support, legal, and healthcare. But I
think we're still just in the very early
innings of applying this amazing set of
capabilities to a ton of different end
industries. And so there's inevitably
going to be a bunch more applications or
end industries that emerge over time
that have great use cases with these
model capabilities. And then the thing
that we're always thinking about is
every few months it feels like the
models get better. So what's the set of
use cases that's going to get unlocked
as these models get more reliable? They
have longerterm reasoning in memory. And
we're constantly trying to figure out
what that set of applications is.
And I guess the theme of this was our
investment framework and how we think
about investing in the AI world. And
thought I'd put together a simple
three-part framework. As a former
consultant, it always has to be three,
but three questions we're always asking
ourselves as we're evaluating these
applications.
So the first is,
is there a really effective wedge for
AI? And I would say that generally the
bar for what product market fit and what
an effective wedge looks like has gone
up in AI because you've just seen
explosive growth for companies when they
do have them. And I think there's this
interesting thing we see in AI today
where there's clearly a huge top- down
mandate for companies to invest in AI.
Boards are telling their CEOs, what are
we doing in AI? So there's a lot of
willingness to experiment with AI
products today. And I think one of the
key things we have to do is when we see
a company that's growing really well,
it's is this just, hey, a company's
messing around with what AI can do and
maybe this is something that they adopt,
maybe it's something they don't adopt,
but they're willing to pay some money
just to see what the product does or is
it something that the end users really
love. And so we're always trying to talk
to the folks who are actually using the
product and figuring out like is this a
gamecher or not? And you can really tell
there's just some products that people
absolutely love. And as you think about
this kind of race to be I think there's
a race right now to be the strategic
partner to
hospitals to law firms to banks to
insert any kind of company and I think a
key part of that race is finding the
right wedge where AI can just deliver a
10x better experience a killer use case
that is that everyone just loves using.
So we really look for that and that's a
prerequisite to us looking at any kind
of company. The next thing we do is we
think about like how much more a company
can do from this wedge. And so there's a
few things behind that. One of them is I
think in larger industries there's
generally more that that AI can do over
time. And so we like healthcare, legal,
finance, large industries versus some of
the more niche ones. And then I think
also there's a question of are there 10
other use cases within this industry
that this set of models is really well
poised to to go automate.
And so I think that one way you could
think about this is there's lots of
great wedges that exist but maybe in
smaller markets. So you could imagine
one thing I would love is I'm sure you
could make a great AI product to write
sourcing emails to reach out to a bunch
of companies for venture capital firms.
And this would probably be a great wedge
that could get you some initial scale
pretty quickly.
And the issue with that obviously is
there's only so many venture capital
firms. That industry is only so many as
so big. And at least today, it's not
totally clear what else models could do
within a venture capital firm. Maybe
they could do a bunch. I'm sure over
time there will place plenty of what we
do. But at least today, I think that's a
great example of
a a potentially very compelling wedge
that doesn't actually translate into a
really interesting company to invest in.
And then the last bucket I'd say we
think a lot about is the extent to which
quality will matter. And the reason this
is important is like I said before, in
any category we look in, there's always
going to be a bunch of players building
there. And there'll always be somebody
who's going to say, "Hey, for 10% of the
price, we'll sell something that's 50%
as good." And the markets that are most
interesting are ones where you would
rather have the higher quality product.
And so maybe an interesting observation
has been that in some ways some of the
easiest things to sell AI products to
today or automate are things that maybe
have already been outsourced that
business processor organizations are
doing already.
And the interesting thing about that is
they might actually have a real race to
the bottom in pricing. And so we're
really focused on things where quality
of the end application really matters
and people will pay for kind of best in
breed. And so I figured it'd be fun to
take these three questions and take a
look at how they apply to a few
investments that we've made in the AI
application space. So there's two that
I'll talk about that I'm on the board
of. One is a healthcare AI company
called a bridge and the other one is a
legal AI company called Labbora.
So let's start with a bridge.
A bridge we co-led their series C. They
recently raised a series E at $5.3
billion. It's an incredible company.
What they basically do is they offer a
product that records a visit between the
doctor and patient and then transcribes
that visit into the electronic health
record in a way that the doctor doesn't
need to spend a ton of time writing the
note themselves. The insurance company
gets the information on what happened in
a way that is is effective for billing
and the patient gets the doctor's
attention as well as can get a summary
of what happened in the visit. And this
is, if you think about that three
question framework on the wedge, you're
not going to find a better wedge than
this. It is like truly an incredible AI
use case because doctors used to have
this thing called pajama time where they
would spend 3 hours at the end of a
really busy day just typing up a bunch
of notes late at night in their house in
their pajamas. Uh, and it was one of the
things that was just leading to massive
doctor burnout. And so for the doctors,
this is really a total lifesaver of not
having to do this extra work and being
able to focus on the patients in front
of them. For the patients, if you ever
been to a doctor's office and they're
typing away at their computer the whole
time, not looking at you, it's a way
better experience when the doctor is
able to focus on you. And then for the
hospitals themselves, the ability to
correctly document what's going on and
then get paid for the services they
provide is also really interesting. And
so this is a use case that has just
spread like wildfire. And if you talk to
any doctors that use a bridge, I've
never heard people speak so positively
about a product. And so incredible
wedge. What they what also makes a
bridge a really interesting company is
there's tons to build on top of that
down the line. And a bridg's CEO Shivra
always says that everything in
healthcare flows from the doctor patient
conversation. And it's totally true. And
a bridge is basically creating this net
new data. And they have an amazing
opportunity to just build a ton of
interesting products on top of that
data. And I think what a bridge does so
effectively is they sell this scribe
product that's here today that people
love that works, but also paint this
really compelling future vision of all
the different things that can do down
the line. And then that third bucket on
quality, I think healthcare is totally a
space where quality really matters.
Who would want to go to a a a health
system where they said, "Hey, we're
using the cheap AI that's 50% is good,
but 10% the price, right?" Like
healthcare is really a space where
quality matters. And I think a bridge
has done a really great job of kind of
leading the science of what does it mean
to have a high quality medical AI
product and how does that how does that
basically how do you evaluate whether
these products are hallucinating,
whether they're recalling everything
that's happened in the visit correctly?
These things have major consequences if
they're done wrong. And so I think
they've done a really great job doing
that. And basically in being early to
build these products, getting cutting
edge science, they've really gotten an
incredible distribution flywheel going,
which has been fascinating to watch and
I think it's a great example of a really
successful AI company.
The second company I want to talk about
is a legal AI company called Lora. We
led the series A here. They recently
raised a great series B. What Lora
basically does is it's an endto-end
platform, collaboration platform for
lawyers where they can do they can
review all of their kind of documents
and work they're doing. They can draft
and compose net new legal documents as
well as do research on whatever it is
they're digging into. And so I think
again if you go back to the three-part
framework, what makes Lora so
interesting is this wedge
is really compelling. There's some
things that models do really well. We
talked earlier about search and
summarization, bulk document review is a
really good fit for models today.
Research over a bunch of different cases
or documents as well as drafting and
writing. So, a great wedge that lawyers
find a lot of value in today. And then I
think over time there's clearly a
feeling that hey, legal is this text in
text out space. there's going to be more
and more that models can do over time
and that it feels like this is an
industry that's fundamentally going to
change with AI and there's a lot more
that a company like Lora can do and then
similar to a bridge that third question
quality really does matter the top
companies in the world the leading
private equity firms or tech companies
they use law firms and they want their
law firms to be using the highest
quality tools right and again whoever
builds the best product in this space I
think really has a right to win
category. And maybe an interesting data
point for our listeners, one thing I
think is fascinating about Lora is
they've been a really successful second
mover in the space. So Harvey was really
the first company in the legal AI space
and Lora started afterwards, but has
really caught up and built an incredible
product. And I think what's enabled that
is a few different things. One of them
is we're still in such early days of
what these legal AI products can do. I
think today whatever these products can
do is probably 5% of what they'll be
able to do down the line that there
really is an opportunity for for a
leaprog as these capabilities continue
to improve. And then the second thing
that was interesting is one of the
challenges of coming to market later is
sometimes people want to pigeon hole you
into hey we already have an endto-end
solution you just do this one thing or
that one thing and it's hard to build an
endto-end product when you do that. Lora
is a team out of Sweden and because it
was started in the Nordics actually had
a real opportunity to early on in the
company's history work with these
leading Nordic law firms and build out
an endto-end product there. And so they
were able to build this really effective
endto-end product and then bring it to
the rest of the world. And I think as we
think about what makes for really
effective teams in the AI space, the
Lora team is, you know, about the
fastest team you can find in terms of
just shipping new things, getting the
capability of these models into the
hands of their customers and building
just really compelling workflows on top
of the models. And so these are two
amazing AI companies we've had the
privilege to to partner with that
really, I think, fit into this to this
overall framework. And so before opening
it up to questions, maybe I'll just end
with some some basic thoughts on some of
the things we've learned so far and seen
in investing in AI applications. The
first is there is just it's amazing how
fast people can build brands and become
almost incumbents in the AI application
space and just the compounding
advantages that come to that. And if you
ask someone on the street, name an AI
coding company, they'll probably say
cursor or support Sierra or healthcare
or bridge. And that's just amazing to
see how fast these companies can move
and build those brands. The second thing
I'd say is velocity is probably the most
important thing we look for. The market
just changes so fast and it's both a
race to build the sheer breadth of all
the different things these models can do
for end industries, but then also a race
to hey, a new model or new capabilities
come out. How do we figure out how to
translate whatever GBT can do to an end
industry? and teams that are just
shipping incredibly fast have a real
advantage in doing that. It really
compounds over time. And then the last
thing I'd say is a lot of what
differentiates these products is really
the thousand little things that make one
product delightful to use over another.
So it's the UX that's way easier to use.
It's latency that's way faster. So every
time you're doing a review, it comes
back quicker. And the interesting thing
we've commented on as a firm is that in
many ways a lot of what makes AI
applications really strong is similar to
what we looked for in SAS businesses in
the past. And I think over time a lot of
these companies have only been building
on these models for a year or two
as we're bu as they're building out for
four or five years. I think a lot of
these differentiation that we've seen in
the SAS world of really products that
are just delightful to use and are
really industry favorites. I think that
will only continue to compound as folks
build longer.
And so with that, I think that's how we
think about things generally. Would love
to open up any questions that folks
have.
>> Thank you for that, Jacob. Super
helpful. There's a few questions in the
chat and I'll help I think frame them in
a way that is more helpful for broader
categories as well.
A few things you mentioned here. How are
you guys now thinking about the balance
of investing between let's say maybe
more traditional B2B SAS companies
versus ones that are like AI first like
I would argue Lora bridge or AI first.
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah. No, it's an interesting it's an
interesting question. I think one one
maybe funny anecdote is that for a while
in our CRM we used to distinguish
between we're like AI companies and this
one's a SAS company and we've now
collapsed that distinction and so it's
almost meaningless at this point like
any SAS company is building they're all
kind of building their own AI features
right and certainly
you have companies that have come of age
in this AI era and maybe are moving
faster or leaning into that more but I
think there's tons of any kind of more
traditional SAS company we look at is
still figuring out ways to to give AI to
their end customers. And I think that on
the application side, almost any
opportunity we look at, whether it was
founded post chat GPT and is purely like
an AI wedge or maybe is a company from 5
10 years ago that is incorporated this
stuff in AI is definitely a part of the
story. And so I think that I'd say
almost universally that is true of the
application companies we invest in. And
to put it maybe more high level, do you
think it's a red flag if you get pitches
that don't mention AI at all? You're
like, I'm not even going to look at this
one.
>> I never hold rules that you that that
solidly. But I would say
I think there's I think it would be a
red flag if the team hadn't deeply
thought about and tried, hey, what can
these models do in our domain? Now, like
I said, it's very possible that you have
a really sophisticated vertical SAS
company. They've looked at a bunch of
different applications of AI. They said,
"Hey, some of the stuff is is 10%
helpful or 20% helpful, but it's not
actually maybe there isn't a 10x use
case yet in our domain." And that's that
might be the case. I think despite all
the hype around AI, it's not like in
every industry already, there's some AI
application that scaled incredibly fast
and found this amazing wedge. But I
think the risk of not thinking about
that stuff is over time as the models
get better, there will be a 10x wedge
from AI in pretty much every industry.
And these companies would risk being
disrupted by someone that was doing that
if they're not keeping their fingers on
the pulse. But there's I think it's
totally legitimate that maybe that 10x
opportunity doesn't yet exist in a
certain end industry.
>> Yeah, makes sense. Next question from
the chat. How important would you say a
moat is today?
It's a great question.
I think the
the reality is we may have like somewhat
unrealistic expectations around modes.
Like I was saying earlier, if you think
about the reasoning models, they've been
out since what like September. People
have been building on them for 9 10
months.
In SAS world, nobody would say, "Hey,
after 9 10 months of building a SAS
product, you really should have this
defined mode." I think it's really
important that there's a path to a moat
and that this isn't and I think that's
why we talked about like quality and
some of these other things that might
help you. There's all sorts of other
creative ways folks are building moes
and I think it's important that you can
see that on the horizon. But I think
it's unlikely in such a short period of
time that there's going to be and like
these modes are often at this stage the
thousand small things that they don't
always sound the smartest. Like I'd much
rather come and be like the reason
there's a mode is they train the best
model and no one else can do that or
they have data nobody else has. And I
think in the early days of AI everybody
wanted that to be the story. But it
turns out again training your own model
certainly pre-training it not helpful.
Yes, you need data to fine-tune but it's
not actually a ton of data and so a lot
of people have access to that. And so in
many ways the the differentiation that I
think will continue to compound is like
these thousand little things and then
what you can do as you get scale
partnerships other things like that.
>> All right. So for folks who want to
reach you what's the best way to reach
out with questions to you and your team?
>> Yeah. So, my email address is just
jacobreedpoint.com.
Really easy one. And I'll I'll plug if
you got anything this interesting. I do
host an AI podcast, Unsupervised
Learning, which you can find if you just
Google Unsupervised Learning, Redpoint,
and we talk about a lot of this stuff.
Yeah, this was this was a ton of fun.
>> This was so fun. We'll get an update in
a few months, see where we're on. Maybe
like at the end of the year, we'll check
in with you again where we are heading
into 2026. Thanks so much, Jacob. This
was super fun.
>> Thank you. Thank you so much. And thank